.TH QAsyncIO 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QAsyncIO \- Encapsulates I/O asynchronicity
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qasyncio.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QDataSink and QDataSource.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QAsyncIO\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void connect ( QObject *, const char * member )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void ready ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Encapsulates I/O asynchronicity.
.PP
The Qt classes for asynchronous input/output provide a simple mechanism to allow large files or slow datasources to be processed without using large amounts of memory, or blocking the user interface.
.PP
This facility is used in Qt to drive animated images. See QImageConsumer and QImageSource.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QAsyncIO::~QAsyncIO () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destroys the async IO object.
.SH "void QAsyncIO::connect ( QObject * obj, const char * member )"
Ensures only one object can respond to changes in readiness.
.SH "void QAsyncIO::ready () \fC[protected]\fR"
Derived classes should call this when they change from being
unready to ready.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qasyncio.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
