.TH QBitVal 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QBitVal \- Internal class, used with QBitArray
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qbitarray.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QBitVal ( QBitArray * " "a" ", uint i )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "operator int ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QBitVal& operator= ( const QBitVal & v )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QBitVal& operator= ( int v )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QBitVal class is an internal class, used with QBitArray.
.PP
The QBitVal is required by the indexing [] operator on bit arrays. It is probably a bad idea to use it in any other context.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QBitVal::QBitVal ( QBitArray * a, uint i )"
Constructs a reference to an element in a QBitArray. This is what QBitArray::operator[] contructs its return value with.
.SH "QBitVal::operator int ()"
Returns the value referenced by the QBitVal.
.SH "QBitVal& QBitVal::operator= ( const QBitVal & v )"
Sets the value referenced by the QBitVal to that referenced by another QBitVal.
.SH "QBitVal& QBitVal::operator= ( int v )"
Sets the value referenced by the QBitVal.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qbitval.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
