.TH QCheckListItem 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCheckListItem \- Implements checkable list view items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlistview.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QListViewItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QCheckListItem ( QCheckListItem * " "parent" ", const char * " "text" ", Type = Controller )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QCheckListItem ( QListView * " "parent" ", const char * " "text" ", Type = Controller )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QCheckListItem ( QListViewItem * " "parent" ", const char * " "text" ", const QPixmap & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QCheckListItem ( QListView * " "parent" ", const char * " "text" ", const QPixmap & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void paintCell ( QPainter *, const QColorGroup & " "cg" ", int " "column" ", int " "width" ", int alignment )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int width ( const QFontMetrics &, const QListView *, int column ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void setup ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setOn ( bool )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool isOn () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "Type type () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char* text () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const char* text ( int n ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void paintBranches ( QPainter * " "p" ", const QColorGroup & " "cg" ", int " "w" ", int " "y" ", int " "h" ", GUIStyle s )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void activate ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void turnOffChild ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void stateChange ( bool )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QCheckListItem class implements checkable list view items.
.PP
There are three types of check list items: CheckBox, RadioButton and Controller.
.PP
Checkboxes may be inserted at top level in the list view. A radio button must be child of a controller.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCheckListItem::QCheckListItem ( QListView * parent, const char * text, Type tt = Controller )"
Constructs a checkable item with parent \fIparent,\fR text \fItext\fR and type \fItt.\fR Note that \fItt\fR must not be RadioButton, if so it will not toggle.
.SH "QCheckListItem::QCheckListItem ( QListView * parent, const char * text, const QPixmap & p )"
Constructs a Controller item with parent \fIparent,\fR text \fItext\fR and pixmap \fIp.\fR
.SH "QCheckListItem::QCheckListItem ( QListViewItem * parent, const char * text, const QPixmap & p )"
Constructs a Controller item with parent \fIparent,\fR text \fItext\fR and pixmap \fIp.\fR
.SH "QCheckListItem::QCheckListItem ( QCheckListItem * parent, const char * text, Type tt = Controller )"
Constructs a checkable item with parent \fIparent,\fR text \fItext\fR and type \fItt.\fR Note that a RadioButton must be child of a Controller, otherwise it will not toggle.
.SH "void QCheckListItem::activate () \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Toggle checkbox, or set radiobutton on.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListViewItem.
.SH "bool QCheckListItem::isOn () const"
Returns TRUE if this item is toggled on, FALSE otherwise.
.SH "void QCheckListItem::paintBranches ( QPainter * p, const QColorGroup & cg, int w, int, int h, GUIStyle ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Fills the rectangle. No decoration is drawn.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListViewItem.
.SH "void QCheckListItem::paintCell ( QPainter * p, const QColorGroup & cg, int column, int width, int align ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Paints this item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListViewItem.
.SH "void QCheckListItem::setOn ( bool b )"
Sets this button on of \fIb\fR is TRUE, off otherwise. Maintains radiobutton exclusivity.
.SH "void QCheckListItem::setup () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Performs setup.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListViewItem.
.SH "void QCheckListItem::stateChange ( bool ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
This virtual function is called when the item changes its on/off state.
.SH "const char * QCheckListItem::text () const"
Returns the text of this item.
.SH "const char * QCheckListItem::text ( int n ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListViewItem.
.SH "void QCheckListItem::turnOffChild () \fC[protected]\fR"
If this is a Controller that has RadioButton children, turn off the child that is on.
.SH "QCheckListItem::Type QCheckListItem::type() const"
Returns the type of this item.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qchecklistitem.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
