.TH QCheckBox 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCheckBox \- Check box with a text label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qcheckbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QButton.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QCheckBox ( QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QCheckBox ( const char * " "text" ", QWidget * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool isChecked () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setChecked ( bool check )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize sizeHint () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void drawButton ( QPainter * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void drawButtonLabel ( QPainter * )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QCheckBox widget provides a check box with a text label.
.PP
QCheckBox and QRadioButton are both toggle buttons, but a check box represents an independent switch that can be on (checked) or off (unchecked).
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP

.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
See also: QButton, QRadioButton and Fowler: Check Box.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCheckBox::QCheckBox ( QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a check box with no text.
.PP
The \fIparent\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are sent to the QWidget constructor.
.SH "QCheckBox::QCheckBox ( const char * text, QWidget * parent, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a check box with a text.
.PP
The \fIparent\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are sent to the QWidget constructor.
.SH "void QCheckBox::drawButton ( QPainter * paint ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the check box. Calls drawButtonLabel() to draw the content.
.PP
See also: drawButtonLabel().
.PP
Reimplemented from QButton.
.SH "void QCheckBox::drawButtonLabel ( QPainter * p ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the check box label.
.PP
See also: drawButton().
.PP
Reimplemented from QButton.
.SH "bool QCheckBox::isChecked () const"
Returns TRUE if the check box is checked, or FALSE if it is not checked.
.PP
See also: setChecked().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "void QCheckBox::setChecked ( bool check )"
Checks the check box if \fIcheck\fR is TRUE, or unchecks it if \fIcheck\fR is FALSE.
.PP
See also: isChecked().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "QSize QCheckBox::sizeHint () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns a size which fits the contents of the check box.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qcheckbox.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
