.TH QChildEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QChildEvent \- Event parameters for child widget events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QChildEvent ( int " "type" ", QWidget * child )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QWidget* child () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool inserted () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool removed () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QChildEvent class contains event parameters for child widget events.
.PP
Child events are sent to widgets when children are inserted or removed.
.PP
In this release of Qt, no event handlers are defined to receive child events. Reimplement QObject::event() or install an QObject::eventFilter() to handle these events.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QChildEvent::QChildEvent ( int type, QWidget * child )"
Constructs a child event object.
.PP
The \fItype\fR parameter must be either \fIEvent_ChildInserted\fR or \fIEvent_ChildRemoved.\fR
.SH "QWidget * QChildEvent::child () const"
Returns the child widget inserted or removed.
.SH "bool QChildEvent::inserted () const"
Returns TRUE if the widget received a new child.
.SH "bool QChildEvent::removed () const"
Returns TRUE if the widget lost a child.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qchildevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
