.TH QConnection 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QConnection \- Internal class, used in the signal/slot mechanism
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qconnection.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QConnection ( const QObject *, QMember, const char * memberName )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QConnection\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool isConnected () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QObject* object () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QMember* member () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char* memberName () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int numArgs () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QConnection class is an internal class, used in the signal/slot mechanism.
.PP
Do not use this class directly in application programs.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QConnection::QConnection ( const QObject * object, QMember member, const char * memberName )"
For internal use only.
.SH "QConnection::~QConnection ()"
For internal use only.
.SH "bool QConnection::isConnected () const"
For internal use only.
.SH "QMember * QConnection::member () const"
For internal use only.
.SH "const char * QConnection::memberName () const"
For internal use only.
.SH "int QConnection::numArgs () const"
For internal use only.
.SH "QObject * QConnection::object () const"
For internal use only.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qconnection.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
