.TH QCustomEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCustomEvent \- Support for custom events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QCustomEvent ( int " "type" ", void * data )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void* data () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QCustomEvent class provides support for custom events.
.PP
QCustomEvent is a user-defined event type which contains a \fCvoid*.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR\fR This event class is internally used to implement Qt enhancements. It is not advisable to use QCustomEvent in normal applications, where other event types and the signal/slot mechanism can do the job.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCustomEvent::QCustomEvent ( int type, void * data )"
Constructs a custom event object with the event type \fItype\fR and a pointer to \fIdata.\fR
.SH "void * QCustomEvent::data () const"
Returns a pointer to the event data (specified in the constructor).
.PP
The event data can be anything and must be casted to something useful
based on the event type. Again, it is not
recommended to use custom events unless you are implementing Qt kernel
enhancements.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qcustomevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
