.TH QDataPump 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDataPump \- Moves data from a QDataSource to a QDataSink during event processing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qasyncio.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QDataPump ( QDataSource *, QDataSink * )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Moves data from a QDataSource to a QDataSink during event processing.
.PP
For a QDataSource to provide data to a QDataSink, a controller must exist to examine the QDataSource::readyToSend() and QDataSink::readyToReceive() methods and respond to the QASyncIO::activate() signal of the source and sink. One very useful way to do this is interleaved with other event processing. QDataPump provides this - create a pipe between a source and a sink, and data will be moved during subsequent event processing.
.PP
Note that each source can only provide data to one sink and each sink can only receive data from one source (although it is quite possible to write a multiplexing sink that is multiple sources).
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDataPump::QDataPump ( QDataSource * data_source, QDataSink * data_sink )"
Creates a QDataPump to move data from a given \fIdata_source\fR
to a given \fIdata_sink.\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qdatapump.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
