.TH QDoubleValidator 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDoubleValidator \- Range checking of floating-point numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qvalidator.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QValidator.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QDoubleValidator ( QWidget * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDoubleValidator ( double " "bottom" ", double " "top" ", int " "decimals" ", QWidget * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDoubleValidator\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QValidator::State validate ( QString &, int & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void setRange ( double " "bottom" ", double " "top" ", int " "decimals" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double bottom () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "double top () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int decimals () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDoubleValidator class provides range checking of floating-point numbers.
.PP
QDoubleValidator provides an upper bound, a lower bound, and a limit on the number of digits after the decimal point. It does not provide a fixup() function.
.PP
See also: QIntValidator.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDoubleValidator::QDoubleValidator ( QWidget * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a validator object which accepts all double from 2.7182818 to 3.1415926 (please, no bug reports) with at most seven digits after the decimal point.
.PP
This constructor is not meant to be useful; it is provided for completeness.
.SH "QDoubleValidator::QDoubleValidator ( double bottom, double top, int decimals, QWidget * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a validator object which accepts all doubles from \fIbottom\fR up to and including \fItop\fR with at most \fIdecimals\fR digits after the decimal point.
.SH "QDoubleValidator::~QDoubleValidator ()"
Deletes the validator and frees any storage and other resources used.
.SH "double QDoubleValidator::bottom () const"
Returns the lowest valid number according to this validator.
.PP
See also: top(), decimals() and setRange().
.SH "int QDoubleValidator::decimals () const"
Returns the largest number of digits a valid number can have after its decimal point.
.PP
See also: bottom(), top() and setRange().
.SH "void QDoubleValidator::setRange ( double bottom, double top, int decimals = 0 ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the validator to accept numbers from \fIbottom\fR up to and including \fItop\fR with at most \fIdecimals\fR digits after the decimal point.
.SH "double QDoubleValidator::top () const"
Returns the highest valid number according to this validator.
.PP
See also:  bottom(), decimals and setRange().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qdoublevalidator.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
