.TH QFileIconProvider 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QFileIconProvider \- Icons for QFileDialog to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qfiledialog.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QFileIconProvider ( QObject * " "parent" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const QPixmap* pixmap ( const QFileInfo & )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QFileIconProvider class provides icons for QFileDialog to use.
.PP
By default, QFileIconProvider is not used, but any application or library can subclass it, reimplement pixmap() to return a suitable icon, and make all QFileDialog objects use it by calling the static function QFileDialog::setIconProvider().
.PP
It's advisable to make all the icons QFileIconProvider returns be of the same size, or at least the same width. This makes the list view look much better.
.PP
See also: QFileDialog.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QFileIconProvider::QFileIconProvider ( QObject * parent = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs an empty file icon provider.
.SH "const QPixmap * QFileIconProvider::pixmap ( const QFileInfo & ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns a pointer to a pixmap suitable for display when the file dialog next to the name of \fIfile.\fR
.PP
If pixmap() returns 0, QFileDialog draws nothing.
.PP
The default implementation returns 0 in Qt 1.40.  In future versions
of Qt it may be extended.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qfileiconprovider.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
