.TH QFocusEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QFocusEvent \- Event parameters for widget focus events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QFocusEvent ( int type )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool gotFocus () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool lostFocus () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QFocusEvent class contains event parameters for widget focus events.
.PP
Focus events are sent to widgets when the keyboard input focus changes.
.PP
The event handlers QWidget::focusInEvent() and QWidget::focusOutEvent() receive focus events.
.PP
See also: QWidget::setFocus() and QWidget::setFocusEnabled().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
table/table.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QFocusEvent::QFocusEvent ( int type )"
Constructs a focus event object.
.PP
The \fItype\fR parameter must be either \fIEvent_FocusIn\fR or \fIEvent_FocusOut.\fR
.SH "bool QFocusEvent::gotFocus () const"
Returns TRUE if the widget received the text input focus.
.SH "bool QFocusEvent::lostFocus () const"
Returns TRUE if the widget lost the text input focus.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qfocusevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
