.TH QFontInfo 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QFontInfo \- General information about fonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qfontinfo.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QFontInfo ( const QFont & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFontInfo ( const QFontInfo & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QFontInfo\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFontInfo& operator= ( const QFontInfo & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char* family () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int pointSize () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool italic () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int weight () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool bold () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool underline () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool strikeOut () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool fixedPitch () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFont::StyleHint styleHint () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFont::CharSet charSet () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool rawMode () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool exactMatch () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QFontInfo class provides general information about fonts.
.PP
The QFont class might not always map exactly to the specified font for a paint device. The QFontInfo class provides information of the actual font that matched a QFont specification.
.PP
There are three ways you can create a QFontInfo object:
.IP 1
The QFontInfo constructor with a QFont creates a font info object for a screen-compatible font, i.e. the font must not be a printer font.
.IP 2
QWidget::fontInfo() returns the font info for a widget's current font. The font info object is automatically updated if somebody sets a new widget font. \fIPlease read the note below.\fR
.IP 3
QPainter::fontInfo() returns the font info for a painter's current font. The font info object is automatically updated if somebody sets a new painter font. \fIPlease read the note below.\fR
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    QFont font("reykjavik",24);
.br
    QFontInfo fi(font);
.br
    if ( strcmp(font.family(),fi.family()) == 0 ) {
.br
        ; // got this font
.br
    } else {
.br
        ; // got fi.family() instead
.br
    }
.fi
.PP
\fBIn Qt 2.0 the font info object will no longer be automatically updated when the widget or painter gets a new font.\fR Make sure you program does not depend on this feature.
.PP
\fBAbout efficiency:\fR We recommend that you use the QFontInfo constructor if you can. This is more efficient than getting the font info from a widget or a painter. The QWidget::fontInfo() and QPainter::fontInfo() will become faster in Qt 2.0, when we have removed the automatic update policy.
.PP
See also: QFont and QFontMetrics.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QFontInfo::QFontInfo ( const QFont & font )"
Constructs a font info object for \fIfont.\fR
.PP
The font must be screen-compatible, i.e. a font you use when drawing text in widgets or pixmaps. If \fIfont\fR is a printer font, you'll probably get wrong results.
.PP
Use the QPainter::fontInfo() to get the font info when painting. This is a little slower than using this constructor, but it always gives correct results.
.SH "QFontInfo::QFontInfo ( const QFontInfo & fi )"
Constructs a copy of \fIfi.\fR
.SH "QFontInfo::~QFontInfo ()"
Destroys the font info object.
.SH "bool QFontInfo::bold () const"
Returns TRUE if weight() would return a greater than \fCQFont::Normal,\fR and FALSE otherwise.
.PP
See also: weight() and QFont::bold().
.SH "QFont::CharSet QFontInfo::charSet() const"
Returns the character set of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also: QFont::charSet().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::exactMatch () const"
Returns TRUE if the matched window system font is exactly the one specified by the font.
.PP
See also: QFont::exactMatch().
.SH "const char * QFontInfo::family () const"
Returns the family name of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also: QFont::family().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "bool QFontInfo::fixedPitch () const"
Returns the fixed pitch value of the matched window system font. A fixed pitch font is a font that has constant character pixel width.
.PP
See also: QFont::fixedPitch().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::italic () const"
Returns the italic value of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also: QFont::italic().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "QFontInfo & QFontInfo::operator= ( const QFontInfo & fi )"
Font info assignment.
.SH "int QFontInfo::pointSize () const"
Returns the point size of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also: QFont::pointSize().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "bool QFontInfo::rawMode () const"
Returns TRUE if the font is a raw mode font.
.PP
If it is a raw mode font, all other functions in QFontInfo will return the same values set in the QFont, regardless of the font actually used.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR The default font is a raw-mode font.
.PP
See also: QFont::rawMode().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::strikeOut () const"
Returns the strike out value of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also: QFont::strikeOut().
.SH "QFont::StyleHint QFontInfo::styleHint() const"
Returns the style of the matched window system font.
.PP
Currently only returns the hint set in QFont.
.PP
See also: QFont::styleHint().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::underline () const"
Returns the underline value of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also: QFont::underline().
.SH "int QFontInfo::weight () const"
Returns the weight of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also: QFont::weight() and bold().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qfontinfo.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
