.TH QGDictIterator 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QGDictIterator \- An internal class for implementing QDictIterator and QIntDictIterator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qgdict.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QDictIterator, QIntDictIterator and QPtrDictIterator.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QGDictIterator ( const QGDict & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QGDictIterator ( const QGDictIterator & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QGDictIterator& operator= ( const QGDictIterator & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QGDictIterator\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "GCI toFirst ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "GCI get () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char* getKey () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "GCI operator ()()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "GCI operator++ ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "GCI operator+= ( uint )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
An internal class for implementing QDictIterator and QIntDictIterator.
.PP
QGDictIterator is a strictly internal class that does the heavy work for QDictIterator and QIntDictIterator.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QGDictIterator::QGDictIterator ( const QGDict & d )"
For internal use only.
.SH "QGDictIterator::QGDictIterator ( const QGDictIterator & it )"
For internal use only.
.SH "QGDictIterator::~QGDictIterator ()"
For internal use only.
.SH "GCI QGDictIterator::get () const"
For internal use only.
.SH "const char * QGDictIterator::getKey () const"
For internal use only.
.SH "GCI QGDictIterator::operator() ()"
For internal use only.
.SH "GCI QGDictIterator::operator++ ()"
For internal use only.
.SH "GCI QGDictIterator::operator+= ( uint jumps )"
For internal use only.
.SH "QGDictIterator & QGDictIterator::operator= ( const QGDictIterator & it )"
For internal use only.
.SH "GCI QGDictIterator::toFirst ()"
For internal use only.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qgdictiterator.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
