.TH QGroupBox 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QGroupBox \- Group box frame with a title
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qgroupbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QFrame.
.PP
Inherited by QButtonGroup.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QGroupBox ( QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QGroupBox ( const char * " "title" ", QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char* title () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setTitle ( const char * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int alignment () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setAlignment ( int )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void paintEvent ( QPaintEvent * )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QGroupBox widget provides a group box frame with a title.
.PP
The intended use of a group box is to show that a number of widgets (i.e. child widgets) are logically related. QPrintDialog is a good example; each of its three panes is one group box.
.PP
By default, the group's setFont() and setPalette() functions do not change the appearance of the widgets it contaisn, but you can use setFontPropagation() and setPalettePropagation() to change that.
.PP
Qt also provides a more specialized group box, QButtonGroup, that is very useful for organizing buttons in a group.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP

.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QGroupBox::QGroupBox ( QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a group box widget with no title.
.PP
The \fIparent\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are passed to the QWidget constructor.
.SH "QGroupBox::QGroupBox ( const char * title, QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a group box with a title.
.PP
The \fIparent\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are passed to the QWidget constructor.
.SH "int QGroupBox::alignment () const"
Returns the alignment of the group box title.
.PP
The default alignment is \fCAlignHCenter.\fR
.PP
See also: setAlignment().
.SH "void QGroupBox::paintEvent ( QPaintEvent * event ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Handles paint events for the group box.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QGroupBox::setAlignment ( int alignment )"
Sets the alignment of the group box title.
.PP
The title is always placed on the upper frame line, however, the horizontal alignment can be specified by the \fIalignment\fR parameter.
.PP
The \fIalignment\fR is the bitwise OR of the following flags:
.TP
\fCAlignLeft\fR aligns the title text to the left.
.TP
\fCAlignRight\fR aligns the title text to the right.
.TP
\fCAlignHCenter\fR aligns the title text centered.
.PP
See also: alignment().
.SH "void QGroupBox::setTitle ( const char * title )"
Sets the group box title text to \fItitle.\fR
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.SH "const char* QGroupBox::title () const"
Returns the group box title text.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qgroupbox.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
