.TH QHBoxLayout 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QHBoxLayout \- Lines up child widgets horizontally
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlayout.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QBoxLayout.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QHBoxLayout ( QWidget * " "parent" ", int " "border" "=0, int " "autoBorder" " = -1, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QHBoxLayout ( int " "autoBorder" " = -1, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QHBoxLayout\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QHBoxLayout class lines up child widgets horizontally.
.PP
This class provides an easier way to construct horizontal box layout objects. See QBoxLayout for more details.
.PP
The simplest way to use this class is:
.PP
.nf
.br
     QBoxLayout * l = new QHBoxLayout( widget );
.br
     l->addWidget( aWidget );
.br
     l->addWidget( anotherWidget );
.br
     l->activate()
.fi
.PP
See also: QVBoxLayout and QGridLayout.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
layout/layout.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QHBoxLayout::QHBoxLayout ( QWidget * parent, int border=0, int autoBorder = -1, const char * name=0 )"
Creates a new top-level horizontal box.
.SH "QHBoxLayout::QHBoxLayout ( int autoBorder = -1, const char * name=0 )"
Creates a new horizontal box. You have to add it to another layout before using it.
.SH "QHBoxLayout::~QHBoxLayout ()"
Destroys this box.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qhboxlayout.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
