.TH QImageDrag 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QImageDrag \- The QImageDrag provides a drag-and-drop object for tranferring images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDragObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QImageDrag ( QImage " "image" ", QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QImageDrag ( QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QImageDrag\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setImage ( QImage image )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const char* format ( int i ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QByteArray encodedData ( const char * ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool canDecode ( QDragMoveEvent * e )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool decode ( QDropEvent * " "e" ", QImage & i )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool decode ( QDropEvent * " "e" ", QPixmap & i )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QImageDrag provides a drag-and-drop object for tranferring images.
.PP
Images are offered to the receiving application in multiple formats, determined by the output formats in Qt.
.PP
For detailed information about drag-and-drop, see the QDragObject class.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QImageDrag::QImageDrag ( QImage image, QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates an image drag object and sets it to \fIimage. dragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QImageDrag::QImageDrag ( QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a default text drag object. \fIdragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QImageDrag::~QImageDrag ()"
Destroys the image drag object and frees all allocated resources.
.SH "bool QImageDrag::canDecode ( QDragMoveEvent * e ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns TRUE if the information in \fIe\fR can be decoded into an image.
.PP
See also: decode().
.SH "bool QImageDrag::decode ( QDropEvent * e, QImage & img ) \fC[static]\fR"
Attempts to decode the dropped information in \fIe\fR into \fIimg,\fR returning TRUE if successful.
.PP
See also: canDecode().
.SH "bool QImageDrag::decode ( QDropEvent * e, QPixmap & pm ) \fC[static]\fR"
Attempts to decode the dropped information in \fIe\fR into \fIpm,\fR returning TRUE if successful.
.PP
This is a convenience function that converts to \fIpm\fR via a QImage.
.PP
See also: canDecode().
.SH "void QImageDrag::setImage ( QImage image )"
Sets the image to be dragged.  You will need to call this if you did
not pass the image during construction.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qimagedrag.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
