.TH QIntValidator 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QIntValidator \- Range checking of integers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qvalidator.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QValidator.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QIntValidator ( QWidget * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QIntValidator ( int " "bottom" ", int " "top" ", QWidget * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QIntValidator\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QValidator::State validate ( QString &, int & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void setRange ( int " "bottom" ", int top )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int bottom () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int top () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QIntValidator class provides range checking of integers.
.PP
QIntValidator provides a lower and an upper bound. It does not provide a fixup() function.
.PP
See also: QDoubleValidator.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QIntValidator::QIntValidator ( QWidget * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a validator object which accepts all integers.
.SH "QIntValidator::QIntValidator ( int bottom, int top, QWidget * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a validator object which accepts all integers from \fIbottom\fR up to and including \fItop.\fR
.SH "QIntValidator::~QIntValidator ()"
Deletes the validator and frees up any storage used.
.SH "int QIntValidator::bottom () const"
Returns the lowest valid number according to this validator.
.PP
See also: top() and setRange().
.SH "void QIntValidator::setRange ( int bottom, int top ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the validator to accept only number from \fIbottom\fR up to an including \fItop.\fR
.SH "int QIntValidator::top () const"
Returns the highest valid number according to this validator.
.PP
See also:  bottom() and setRange().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qintvalidator.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
