.TH QIODeviceSource 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QIODeviceSource \- A QIODeviceSource is a QDataSource that draws data from a QIODevice
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qasyncio.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDataSource.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QIODeviceSource ( QIODevice *, int " "bufsize" "=4096 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QIODeviceSource\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int readyToSend ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void sendTo ( QDataSink * " "sink" ", int n )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool rewindable () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void enableRewind ( bool on )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void rewind ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
A QIODeviceSource is a QDataSource that draws data from a QIODevice
.PP
This class encapsulates retrieving data from a QIODevice (such as a QFile).
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QIODeviceSource::QIODeviceSource ( QIODevice * device, int buffer_size=4096 )"
Constructs a QIODeviceSource from a pointer to an QIODevice. The QIODevice \fImust\fR be dynamically allocated, becomes owned by the QIODeviceSource, and will be deleted when the QIODeviceSource destructs. \fIbuffer_size\fR determines the size of buffering to use between asynchronous operations. The higher \fIbuffer_size,\fR the more efficient but the less interleaved the operation will be with other processing.
.SH "QIODeviceSource::~QIODeviceSource ()"
Destroys the QIODeviceSource, deleting the QIODevice from which it was constructed.
.SH "void QIODeviceSource::enableRewind ( bool on ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Enables rewinding. No special action is taken.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "int QIODeviceSource::readyToSend () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Ready until end-of-file.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "bool QIODeviceSource::rewindable () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
All QIODeviceSource's are rewindable.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "void QIODeviceSource::sendTo ( QDataSink * sink, int n ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reads and sends a block of data.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qiodevicesource.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
