.TH QListBoxText 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QListBoxText \- List box items with text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlistbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QListBoxItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QListBoxText ( const char * = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QListBoxText\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void paint ( QPainter * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int height ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int width ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QListBoxText class provides list box items with text.
.PP
The text is drawn in the widget's current font. If you need several different fonts, you have to make your own subclass of QListBoxItem.
.PP
See also: QListBox and QListBoxItem.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QListBoxText::QListBoxText ( const char * text = 0 )"
Constructs a list box item showing the text \fItext.\fR
.SH "QListBoxText::~QListBoxText ()"
Destroys the item.
.SH "int QListBoxText::height ( const QListBox * lb ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the height of a line of text.
.PP
See also: paint() and width().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "void QListBoxText::paint ( QPainter * p ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Draws the text using painter \fIp.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "int QListBoxText::width ( const QListBox * lb ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the width of this line.
.PP
See also: paint() and height().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qlistboxtext.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
