.TH QListBoxPixmap 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QListBoxPixmap \- List box items with a pixmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlistbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QListBoxItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QListBoxPixmap ( const QPixmap & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QListBoxPixmap\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const QPixmap* pixmap () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void paint ( QPainter * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int height ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int width ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QListBoxPixmap class provides list box items with a pixmap.
.PP
See also: QListBox and QListBoxItem.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( const QPixmap & pixmap )"
Creates a new list box item showing the pixmap \fIpixmap.\fR
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::~QListBoxPixmap ()"
Destroys the item.
.SH "int QListBoxPixmap::height ( const QListBox * ) const \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Returns the height of the pixmap.
.PP
See also: paint() and width().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "void QListBoxPixmap::paint ( QPainter * p ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the pixmap using painter \fIp.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "const QPixmap * QListBoxPixmap::pixmap () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the pixmap connected with the item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "int QListBoxPixmap::width ( const QListBox * ) const \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Returns the width of the pixmap.
.PP
See also: paint() and height().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qlistboxpixmap.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
