.TH QMouseEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMouseEvent \- Parameters that describe a mouse event
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QMouseEvent ( int " "type" ", const QPoint & " "pos" ", int " "button" ", int state )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QMouseEvent ( int " "type" ", const QPoint & " "pos" ", const QPoint & " "globalPos" ", int " "button" ", int state )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QPoint& pos () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QPoint& globalPos () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBx\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBy\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int globalX () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int globalY () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int button () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int state () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QMouseEvent class contains parameters that describe a mouse event.
.PP
Mouse events occur when a mouse button is pressed or released inside a widget, or when the mouse cursor is moved.
.PP
Mouse move events will only occur when some mouse button is pressed down, unless mouse tracking has been enabled.
.PP
Qt makes an automatic mouse grab when a mouse button is pressed inside a widget, and the widget will continue to receive mouse events until the last mouse button is released.
.PP
The QWidget::setEnable() function can be used to enable or disable mouse and keyboard events for a widget.
.PP
The QCursor widget has static functions for reading and setting the position of the mouse cursor.
.PP
The event handlers QWidget::mousePressEvent(), QWidget::mouseReleaseEvent(), QWidget::mouseDoubleClickEvent() and QWidget::mouseMoveEvent() receive mouse events.
.PP
See also: QWidget::setMouseTracking() and QWidget::grabMouse().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp table/table.cpp life/life.cpp dclock/dclock.cpp connect/connect.cpp trivial/trivial.cpp tooltip/tooltip.cpp hello/hello.cpp movies/main.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp showimg/showimg.cpp biff/biff.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QMouseEvent::QMouseEvent ( int type, const QPoint & pos, int button, int state )"
Constructs a mouse event object.
.PP
The type parameter must be \fCEvent_MouseButtonPress, Event_MouseButtonRelease, Event_MouseButtonDblClick\fR or \fCEvent_MouseMove.\fR
.SH "int QMouseEvent::button () const"
Returns the button that caused the event.
.PP
Possible return values are \fCLeftButton, RightButton, MidButton\fR and \fCNoButton.\fR
.PP
Note that the returned value is always \fCNoButton\fR (0) for mouse move events.
.PP
See also: state().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
dclock/dclock.cpp movies/main.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.SH "const QPoint & QMouseEvent::globalPos () const"
Returns the global position of the mouse pointer at the time of the event
.PP
See also: globalX() and globalY().
.SH "int QMouseEvent::globalX () const"
Returns the global X position of the mouse pointer at the time of the event
.PP
See also: globalY() and globalPos().
.SH "int QMouseEvent::globalY () const"
Returns the global Y position of the mouse pointer at the time of the event
.PP
See also: globalX() and globalPos().
.SH "const QPoint & QMouseEvent::pos () const"
Returns the position of the mouse pointer, relative to the widget that received the event.
.PP
See also: x() and y().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp connect/connect.cpp tooltip/tooltip.cpp hello/hello.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp
.)l
.SH "int QMouseEvent::state () const"
Returns the button state (a combination of mouse buttons and keyboard modifiers), i.e. what buttons and keys were being held depressed immediately before the event was generated.
.PP
Note that this means that for \fCEvent_MouseButtonPress\fR and \fCEvent_MouseButtonDblClick,\fR the flag for the button() itself will not be set in the state; while for \fCEvent_MouseButtonRelease,\fR it will.
.PP
The returned value is \fCLeftButton, RightButton, MidButton, ShiftButton, ControlButton\fR and \fCAltButton\fR OR'ed together.
.PP
See also: button().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
movies/main.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.SH "int QMouseEvent::x () const"
Returns the X position of the mouse pointer, relative to the widget that received the event.
.PP
See also: y() and pos().
.SH "int QMouseEvent::y () const"
Returns the Y position of the mouse pointer, relative to the widget that received the event.
.PP
See also:  x() and pos().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qmouseevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
