.TH QMoveEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMoveEvent \- Event parameters for move events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QMoveEvent ( const QPoint & " "pos" ", const QPoint & oldPos )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QPoint& pos () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QPoint& oldPos () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QMoveEvent class contains event parameters for move events.
.PP
Move events are sent to widgets that have been moved to a new position relative to their parent.
.PP
The event handler QWidget::moveEvent() receives move events.
.PP
See also: QWidget::move() and QWidget::setGeometry().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QMoveEvent::QMoveEvent ( const QPoint & pos, const QPoint & oldPos )"
Constructs a move event with the new and old widget positions.
.SH "const QPoint & QMoveEvent::oldPos () const"
Returns the old position of the widget.
.SH "const QPoint & QMoveEvent::pos () const"
Returns the new position of the widget, which is the same as
QWidget::pos().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qmoveevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
