.TH QNPWidget 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QNPWidget \- A QWidget that is a Web-browser plugin window [Qt NSPlugin Extension]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qnp.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QWidget.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QNPWidget ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QNPWidget\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setWindow ( bool )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void unsetWindow ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void enterInstance ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void leaveInstance ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QNPInstance* instance ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
This class is defined in the \fBQt NSPlugin Extension\fR, which can be found in the \fCqt/extensions\fR directory. It is not included in the main Qt API.
.PP
A QWidget that is a Web-browser plugin window
.PP
Derive from QNPWidget to create a widget that can be used as a Browser plugin window, or create one and add child widgets. Instances of QNPWidget may only be created when QNPInstance::newWindow() is called by the browser.
.PP
A common way to develop a plugin widget is to develop it as a stand-alone application window, then make it a \fIchild\fR of a plugin widget to use it as a browser plugin. The technique is:
.PP
.nf
.br
class MyPluginWindow : public QNPWidget {
.br
    QWidget* child;
.br
public:
.br
    MyPluginWindow()
.br
    {
.br
        // Some widget that is normally used as a top-level widget
.br
        child = new MyIndependentlyDevelopedWidget();
.br
.br
        // Use the background color of the web page
.br
        child->setBackgroundColor( backgroundColor() );
.br
.br
        // Fill the plugin widget
.br
        child->setGeometry( 0, 0, width(), height() );
.br
    }
.br
.br
    void resizeEvent(QResizeEvent*)
.br
    {
.br
        // Fill the plugin widget
.br
        child->resize(size());
.br
    }
.br
};
.fi
.PP
The default implementation is an empty window.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp grapher/grapher.cpp trivial/trivial.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QNPWidget::QNPWidget ()"
Creates a QNPWidget.
.SH "QNPWidget::~QNPWidget ()"
Destroys the window. This will be called by the plugin binding code when the window is no longer required. The Web-browser will delete windows when they leave the page. The bindings will change the QWidget::winId() of the window when the window is resized, but this should not affect normal widget behaviour.
.SH "void QNPWidget::enterInstance () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Called when the mouse enters the plugin window. Default does nothing.
.SH "QNPInstance* QNPWidget::instance ()"
Returns the instance for which this widget is the window.
.SH "void QNPWidget::leaveInstance () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Called when the mouse leaves the plugin window. Default does nothing.
.SH "void QNPWidget::setWindow ( bool delold )"
For internal use only.
.SH "void QNPWidget::unsetWindow ()"
For internal use only.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qnpwidget.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
