.TH QPaintDeviceMetrics 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPaintDeviceMetrics \- Information about a paint device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qpaintdevicemetrics.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QPaintDeviceMetrics ( const QPaintDevice * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int width () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int height () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int widthMM () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int heightMM () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int numColors () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int depth () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QPaintDeviceMetrics class provides information about a paint device.
.PP
Sometimes it is necessary to obtain information about the physical size of a paint device when drawing graphics.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    QPaintDeviceMetrics pdm( myWidget );
.br
    float aspect = (float)pdm.widthMM / (float)pdm.heightMM();
.fi
.PP
Examples:
.(l
application/application.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPaintDeviceMetrics::QPaintDeviceMetrics ( const QPaintDevice * pd )"
Constructs a metric for the paint device \fIpd.\fR
.SH "int QPaintDeviceMetrics::depth () const"
Returns the bit depth (number of bit planes) of the paint device.
.SH "int QPaintDeviceMetrics::height () const"
Returns the height of the paint device, in default coordinate system units (e.g. pixels for QPixmap and QWidget).
.PP
Examples:
.(l
application/application.cpp
.)l
.SH "int QPaintDeviceMetrics::heightMM () const"
Returns the height of the paint device, measured in millimeters.
.SH "int QPaintDeviceMetrics::numColors () const"
Returns the number of different colors available for the paint device.
.SH "int QPaintDeviceMetrics::width () const"
Returns the width of the paint device, in default coordinate system units (e.g. pixels for QPixmap and QWidget).
.PP
Examples:
.(l
application/application.cpp
.)l
.SH "int QPaintDeviceMetrics::widthMM () const"
Returns the width of the paint device, measured in millimeters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qpaintdevicemetrics.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
