.TH QPaintEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPaintEvent \- Event parameters for paint events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QPaintEvent ( const QRect & paintRect )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QRect& rect () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QPaintEvent class contains event parameters for paint events.
.PP
Paint events are sent to widgets that need to update themselves, for instance when a part of a widget is exposed because an overlying widget is moved away.
.PP
The event handler QWidget::paintEvent() receives paint events.
.PP
See also: QPainter, QWidget::update() and QWidget::repaint().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp life/life.cpp grapher/grapher.cpp forever/forever.cpp desktop/desktop.cpp connect/connect.cpp trivial/trivial.cpp tooltip/tooltip.cpp drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp hello/hello.cpp picture/picture.cpp xform/xform.cpp aclock/aclock.cpp progress/progress.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp showimg/showimg.cpp biff/biff.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPaintEvent::QPaintEvent ( const QRect & paintRect )"
Constructs a paint event object with the rectangle that should be updated.
.SH "const QRect & QPaintEvent::rect () const"
Returns the rectangle that should be updated.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp life/life.cpp grapher/grapher.cpp trivial/trivial.cpp progress/progress.cpp showimg/showimg.cpp
.)l
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qpaintevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
