.TH QPointVal 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPointVal \- Internal class, used with QPointArray
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qpointarray.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QPointVal ( QPointData * ptr )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool operator== ( const QPointVal & point ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool operator!= ( const QPointVal & point ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPointVal& operator= ( const QPointVal & point )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPointVal& operator= ( const QPoint & point )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPointVal& operator+= ( const QPoint & point )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPointVal& operator-= ( const QPoint & point )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "operator QPoint ()const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBx\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBy\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QPointVal class is an internal class, used with QPointArray.
.PP
The QPointVal is required by the indexing [] operator on point arrays. It is probably a bad idea to use it in any other context.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPointVal::QPointVal ( QPointData * ptr )"
Constructs a reference to an element in a QPointArray. This is what QPointArray::operator[] contructs its return value with.
.SH "QPointVal::operator QPoint () const"
Returns the value of the point referenced by this QPointVal.
.SH "QPointVal& QPointVal::operator+= ( const QPoint & point )"
Vector-adds a given point to the value referenced by this QPointVal.
.SH "QPointVal& QPointVal::operator-= ( const QPoint & point )"
Vector-subtracts a given point to the value referenced by this QPointVal.
.SH "QPointVal& QPointVal::operator= ( const QPoint & point )"
Assigns a given point to the value referenced by this QPointVal.
.SH "int QPointVal::x () const"
Returns the X coordinate of the point referenced by this QPointVal.
.SH "int QPointVal::y () const"
Returns the Y coordinate of the point referenced by this QPointVal.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qpointval.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
