.TH QPrintDialog 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPrintDialog \- X-only dialog for specifying print-out details
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qprintdialog.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDialog.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QPrintDialog ( QPrinter *, QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QPrintDialog\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setPrinter ( QPrinter *, bool = FALSE )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPrinter* printer () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool getPrinterSetup ( QPrinter * )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QPrintDialog class provides an X-only dialog for specifying print-out details.
.PP
It encompasses both the sort of details needed for doing a simple print-out and some print configuration setup.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR For this release, the printer dialog is only available under X11. Use QPrinter::setup() for portability.
.PP
At present, the only easy way to use the class is through the static function getPrinterSetup(). You can however also call the global QPrintDialot::getPrinterConfigure(), or subclass in order to extend one of the group boxes.
.PP
Note that in 1.40 the printer dialog is a little too high for comfortable use on a small-screen machine. This will be improved on in 2.0.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
The printer dialog, on a large screen, in Motif style.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPrintDialog::QPrintDialog ( QPrinter * prn, QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0 )"
Creates a new modal printer dialog that configures \fIprn\fR and is a child of \fIparent\fR named \fIname.\fR
.SH "QPrintDialog::~QPrintDialog ()"
Destroys the object and frees any allocated resources. Does not delete the associated QPrinter object.
.SH "bool QPrintDialog::getPrinterSetup ( QPrinter * p ) \fC[static]\fR"
Display a dialog and allow the user to configure the QPrinter \fIp.\fR Returns TRUE if the user clicks OK or presses Enter, FALSE if the user clicks Cancel or presses Escape.
.PP
getPrinterSetup() remembers the settings and provides the same settings the next time the dialog is shown.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR For this release, the printer dialog is only available under X11. Use QPrinter::setup() for portability.
.SH "QPrinter * QPrintDialog::printer () const"
Returns a pointer to the printer this dialog configures, or 0 if this dialog does not operate on any printer.
.SH "void QPrintDialog::setPrinter ( QPrinter * p, bool pickUpSettings = FALSE )"
Sets this dialog to configure \fIp,\fR or no printer if \fIp\fR is
FALSE.  If \fIpickUpSettings\fR is TRUE, the dialog reads most of its
settings from \fIprinter.\fR  If \fIpickUpSettings\fR is FALSE (the
default) the dialog keeps its old settings.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qprintdialog.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
