.TH QPtrDictIterator 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPtrDictIterator \- Iterator for QPtrDict collections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qptrdict.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QGDictIterator.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QPtrDictIterator ( const QPtrDict<type> & dict )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QPtrDictIterator\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint count () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool isEmpty () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "type* toFirst ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "operator \fBtype*\fR ()const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "type* current () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void* currentKey () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "type* operator ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "type* operator++ ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "type* operator+= ( uint jump )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QPtrDictIterator class provides an iterator for QPtrDict collections.
.PP
QPtrDictIterator is implemented as both a template and a macro class. Define a template instance QPtrDictIterator<X> to create a dictionary iterator that operates on QPtrDict<X> (dictionary of X*).
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
.br
    #include <qptrdict.h>
.br
    #include <stdio.h>
.br
.br
    void main()
.br
    {
.br
        int *a = new int[12];
.br
        int *b = new int[10];
.br
        int *c = new int[18];
.br
        int *d = new int[13];
.br
.br
        QPtrDict<char> dict;               // maps void* -> char*
.br
.br
        dict.insert( a, "a is int[12]" );  // descripe pointers
.br
        dict.insert( b, "b is int[10]" );
.br
        dict.insert( c, "c is int[18]" );
.br
.br
        QPtrDictIterator<char> it( dict ); // iterator for dict
.br
.br
        while ( it.current() ) {
.br
            printf( "%x -> %s\\n", it.currentKey(), it.current() );
.br
            ++it;
.br
        }
.br
    }
.fi
.PP
Program output:
.PP
.nf
.br
        804a788 -> a is int[12]
.br
        804a7f0 -> c is int[18]
.br
        804a7c0 -> b is int[10]
.fi
.PP
Note that the traversal order is arbitrary, you are not guaranteed the order above.
.PP
A QPtrDictIterator can also be instantiated through a macro expansion, but this is necessary only for compilers that do not support templates. See the collection classes documentation for a general discussion on template-based versus macro-based collections.
.PP
Multiple iterators may independently traverse the same dictionary. A QPtrDict knows about all iterators that are operating on the dictionary. When an item is removed from the dictionary, QPtrDict update all iterators that are referring the removed item to point to the next item in the traversing order.
.PP
See also: QPtrDict and Collection Classes
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPtrDictIterator::QPtrDictIterator ( const QPtrDict<type> & dict )"
Constructs an iterator for \fIdict.\fR The current iterator item is set to point on the first item in the \fIdict.\fR
.SH "QPtrDictIterator::~QPtrDictIterator ()"
Destroys the iterator.
.SH "QPtrDictIterator::operator type * () const"
Cast operator. Returns a pointer to the current iterator item. Same as current().
.SH "uint QPtrDictIterator::count () const"
Returns the number of items in the dictionary this iterator operates on.
.PP
See also: isEmpty().
.SH "type * QPtrDictIterator::current () const"
Returns a pointer to the current iterator item.
.SH "void * QPtrDictIterator::currentKey () const"
Returns the key for the current iterator item.
.SH "bool QPtrDictIterator::isEmpty () const"
Returns TRUE if the dictionary is empty, i.e. count() == 0. Returns FALSE otherwise.
.PP
See also: count().
.SH "type * QPtrDictIterator::operator() ()"
Makes the succeeding item current and returns the original current item.
.PP
If the current iterator item was the last item in the dictionary or if it was null, null is returned.
.SH "type * QPtrDictIterator::operator++ ()"
Prefix ++ makes the succeeding item current and returns the new current item.
.PP
If the current iterator item was the last item in the dictionary or if it was null, null is returned.
.SH "type * QPtrDictIterator::operator+= ( uint jump )"
Sets the current item to the item \fIjump\fR positions after the current item, and returns a pointer to that item.
.PP
If that item is beyond the last item or if the dictionary is empty, it sets the current item to null and returns null.
.SH "type * QPtrDictIterator::toFirst ()"
Sets the current iterator item to point to the first item in the
dictionary and returns a pointer to the item.
If the dictionary is  empty it sets the current item to null and 
returns null.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qptrdictiterator.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
