.TH QPushButton 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPushButton \- Push button with a text or pixmap label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qpushbutton.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QButton.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QPushButton ( QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPushButton ( const char * " "text" ", QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setToggleButton ( bool )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool autoDefault () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setAutoDefault ( bool autoDef )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool isDefault () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setDefault ( bool def )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setIsMenuButton ( bool )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool isMenuButton () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize sizeHint () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void move ( int " "x" ", int y )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void move ( const QPoint & p )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void resize ( int " "w" ", int h )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void resize ( const QSize & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void setGeometry ( int " "x" ", int " "y" ", int " "w" ", int h )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setGeometry ( const QRect & )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Public Slots"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void setOn ( bool )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void toggle ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void drawButton ( QPainter * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void drawButtonLabel ( QPainter * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void focusInEvent ( QFocusEvent * )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QPushButton widget provides a push button with a text or pixmap label.
.PP
A default push button in a dialog emits the clicked signal if the user presses the Enter key.
.PP
A push button has \fCTabFocus\fR as a default focusPolicy(), i.e. it can get keyboard focus by tabbing but not by clicking.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP

.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
See also: QRadioButton, QToolButton and GUI Design Handbook: Push Button
.PP
Examples:
.(l
tictac/tictac.cpp drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp xform/xform.cpp layout/layout.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPushButton::QPushButton ( QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a push button with no text.
.PP
The \fIparent\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are sent to the QWidget constructor.
.SH "QPushButton::QPushButton ( const char * text, QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a push button with a text.
.PP
The \fIparent\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are sent to the QWidget constructor.
.SH "bool QPushButton::autoDefault () const"
Returns TRUE if the button is an auto-default button.
.PP
See also: setAutoDefault().
.SH "void QPushButton::drawButton ( QPainter * paint ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the push button, except its label.
.PP
See also: drawButtonLabel().
.PP
Reimplemented from QButton.
.SH "void QPushButton::drawButtonLabel ( QPainter * paint ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the push button label.
.PP
See also: drawButton().
.PP
Reimplemented from QButton.
.SH "void QPushButton::focusInEvent ( QFocusEvent * e ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Handles focus in events for the push button.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "bool QPushButton::isDefault () const"
Returns TRUE if the button is default.
.PP
See also: setDefault().
.SH "bool QPushButton::isMenuButton () const"
Returns TRUE if this button indicates to the user that pressing it will pop up a menu, and FALSE otherwise. The default is FALSE.
.PP
See also: setIsMenuButton().
.SH "void QPushButton::move ( const QPoint & p )"
Reimplements QWidget::move() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QPushButton::move ( int x, int y )"
Reimplements QWidget::move() for internal purposes.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp
.)l
.SH "void QPushButton::resize ( const QSize & s )"
Reimplements QWidget::resize() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QPushButton::resize ( int w, int h )"
Reimplements QWidget::resize() for internal purposes.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp
.)l
.SH "void QPushButton::setAutoDefault ( bool enable )"
Sets the push buttons to an auto-default button if \fIenable\fR is TRUE, or to a normal button if \fIenable\fR is FALSE.
.PP
An auto-default button becomes the default push button automatically when it receives the keyboard input focus.
.PP
See also: autoDefault() and setDefault().
.SH "void QPushButton::setDefault ( bool enable )"
Sets the button to be the default button if \fIenable\fR is TRUE, or to be a normal button if \fIenable\fR is FALSE.
.PP
A default push button in a dialog emits the QButton::clicked() signal if the user presses the Enter key. Only one push button in the dialog can be default.
.PP
Default push buttons are only allowed in dialogs.
.PP
See also: isDefault(), setAutoDefault() and QDialog.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "void QPushButton::setGeometry ( const QRect & r )"
Reimplements QWidget::setGeometry() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QPushButton::setGeometry ( int x, int y, int w, int h ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::setGeometry() for internal purposes.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp
.)l
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QPushButton::setIsMenuButton ( bool enable )"
Tells this button to draw a menu indication triangle if \fIenable\fR is TRUE, and to not draw one if \fIenable\fR is FALSE (the default).
.PP
setIsMenuButton() does not cause the button to do anything other than draw the menu indication.
.PP
See also: isMenuButton().
.SH "void QPushButton::setOn ( bool enable ) \fC[slot]\fR"
Switches a toggle button on if \fIenable\fR is TRUE or off if \fIenable\fR is FALSE.
.PP
See also: isOn(), toggle(), toggled() and isToggleButton().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qmag/qmag.cpp
.)l
.SH "void QPushButton::setToggleButton ( bool enable )"
Makes the push button a toggle button if \fIenable\fR is TRUE, or a normal push button if \fIenable\fR is FALSE.
.PP
Toggle buttons have an on/off state similar to check boxes. A push button is initially not a toggle button.
.PP
See also: setOn(), toggle(), isToggleButton() and toggled().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qmag/qmag.cpp
.)l
.SH "QSize QPushButton::sizeHint () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns a size which fits the contents of the push button.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
layout/layout.cpp widgets/widgets.cpp
.)l
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QPushButton::toggle () \fC[slot]\fR"
Toggles the state of a toggle button.
.PP
See also:  isOn(), setOn(), toggled() and isToggleButton().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qpushbutton.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
