.TH QResizeEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QResizeEvent \- Event parameters for resize events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QResizeEvent ( const QSize & " "size" ", const QSize & oldSize )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QSize& size () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QSize& oldSize () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QResizeEvent class contains event parameters for resize events.
.PP
Resize events are sent to widgets that have been resized.
.PP
The event handler QWidget::resizeEvent() receives resize events.
.PP
See also: QWidget::resize() and QWidget::setGeometry().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
mainlyMotif/editor.cpp tictac/tictac.cpp life/life.cpp mainlyQt/editor.cpp tooltip/tooltip.cpp drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp xform/xform.cpp menu/menu.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp showimg/showimg.cpp mainlyXt/editor.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QResizeEvent::QResizeEvent ( const QSize & size, const QSize & oldSize )"
Constructs a resize event with the new and old widget sizes.
.SH "const QSize & QResizeEvent::oldSize () const"
Returns the old size of the widget.
.SH "const QSize & QResizeEvent::size () const"
Returns the new size of the widget, which is the same as
QWidget::size().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qresizeevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
