.TH QSemiModal 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSemiModal \- The base class of semi-modal dialog windows
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qsemimodal.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QWidget.
.PP
Inherited by QProgressDialog.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QSemiModal ( QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0, bool " "modal" "=FALSE, WFlags " "f" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QSemiModal\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void show ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void move ( int " "x" ", int y )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void move ( const QPoint & p )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void resize ( int " "w" ", int h )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void resize ( const QSize & )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void setGeometry ( int " "x" ", int " "y" ", int " "w" ", int h )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setGeometry ( const QRect & )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QSemiModal class is the base class of semi-modal dialog windows.
.PP
The semi-modal dialog window can disable events to other windows while it is open. To enable this, the QSemiModal must be constructed with TRUE for the \fImodal\fR argument, which is FALSE by default, for consistency with QDialog. Such a QSemiModal is modal like QDialog, but it does not have its own event loop and has no concept of a default button.
.PP
Note that the parent widget has a different meaning for semi-modal dialogs than for other types of widgets. A semi-modal dialog is placed on top of the parent widget. The dialog is centered on the screen if the parent widget is zero.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSemiModal::QSemiModal ( QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0, bool modal=FALSE, WFlags f=0 )"
Constructs a semi-modal dialog named \fIname,\fR which has a parent widget \fIparent.\fR If \fImodal\fR is FALSE (the default), the only behaviour different to a QWidget is automatic sizing and positioning.
.SH "QSemiModal::~QSemiModal ()"
Destroys the QSemiModal and all its children.
.SH "void QSemiModal::move ( const QPoint & p )"
Reimplements QWidget::move() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QSemiModal::move ( int x, int y ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::move() for internal purposes.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSemiModal::resize ( const QSize & s )"
Reimplements QWidget::resize() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QSemiModal::resize ( int w, int h ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::resize() for internal purposes.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSemiModal::setGeometry ( const QRect & r )"
Reimplements QWidget::setGeometry() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QSemiModal::setGeometry ( int x, int y, int w, int h ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::setGeometry() for internal purposes.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSemiModal::show () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Shows the widget. This implementation also does automatic resizing and automatic positioning. If you have not already resized or moved the dialog, it will find a size that fits the contents and a position near the middle of the screen (or centered relative to the parent widget if any).
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qsemimodal.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
