.TH QStrIList 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QStrIList \- Doubly linked list of \fCchar*\fR with case insensitive compare
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qstrlist.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QStrList.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QStrIList ( bool " "deepCopies" "=TRUE )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QStrIList\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QStrIList class provides a doubly linked list of \fCchar*\fR with case insensitive compare.
.PP
This class is a QList<char> instance (a list of char*).
.PP
QStrIList is similar to QStrList except that it is case insensitive. The virtual compareItems() function is reimplemented and does a case insensitive string comparision. The inSort() function will insert strings in a sorted order.
.PP
The QStrListIterator class is an iterator for QStrList.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QStrIList::QStrIList ( bool deepCopies=TRUE )"
Constructs a list of strings. Will make deep copies of all inserted strings if \fIdeepCopies\fR is TRUE, or uses shallow copies if \fIdeepCopies\fR is FALSE.
.SH "QStrIList::~QStrIList ()"
Destroys the list.  All strings are removed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qstrilist.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
