.TH QTextDrag 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextDrag \- The QTextDrag provides a drag-and-drop object for transferring plain text
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QStoredDrag.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QTextDrag ( const char *, QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QTextDrag ( QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QTextDrag\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setText ( const char * )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool canDecode ( QDragMoveEvent * e )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool decode ( QDropEvent * " "e" ", QString & s )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTextDrag provides a drag-and-drop object for transferring plain text.
.PP
Plain text is defined as single- or multi-line US-ASCII or an unspecified 8-bit character set.
.PP
Qt provides no built-in mechanism for delivering only single-line or only US-ASCII text.
.PP
Drag&Drop text does \fInot\fR have a NUL terminator when it is dropped onto the target.
.PP
For detailed information about drag-and-drop, see the QDragObject class.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextDrag::QTextDrag ( QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a default text drag object. \fIdragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QTextDrag::QTextDrag ( const char * text, QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a text drag object and sets it to \fItext. dragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QTextDrag::~QTextDrag ()"
Destroys the text drag object and frees all allocated resources.
.SH "bool QTextDrag::canDecode ( QDragMoveEvent * e ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns TRUE if the information in \fIe\fR can be decoded into a QString.
.PP
See also: decode().
.SH "bool QTextDrag::decode ( QDropEvent * e, QString & str ) \fC[static]\fR"
Attempts to decode the dropped information in \fIe\fR into \fIstr,\fR returning TRUE if successful.
.PP
See also: decode().
.SH "void QTextDrag::setText ( const char * text )"
Sets the text to be dragged.  You will need to call this if you did
not pass the text during construction.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qtextdrag.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
