.TH QTimerEvent 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTimerEvent \- Parameters that describe a timer event
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QTimerEvent ( int timerId )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int timerId () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTimerEvent class contains parameters that describe a timer event.
.PP
Timer events are sent at regular intervals to objects that have started one or more timers. Each timer has a unique identifier.
.PP
If interval is 0, then the timer event occurs once every time there are no more window system events to process.
.PP
The QTimer class provides a high-level programming interface with one-shot timers and timer signals instead of events.
.PP
The event handler QObject::timerEvent() receives timer events.
.PP
See also: QTimer, QObject::timerEvent(), QObject::startTimer(), QObject::killTimer() and QObject::killTimers().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
dclock/dclock.cpp grapher/grapher.cpp forever/forever.cpp progress/progress.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp biff/biff.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTimerEvent::QTimerEvent ( int timerId )"
Constructs a timer event object with the timer identifier set to \fItimerId.\fR
.SH "int QTimerEvent::timerId () const"
Returns the unique timer identifier, which is the same identifier as
returned from QObject::startTimer().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qtimerevent.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
