.TH QToolTipGroup 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QToolTipGroup \- Collects tool tips into natural groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qtooltip.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QToolTipGroup ( QObject * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QToolTipGroup\fR ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Signals"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void showTip ( const char * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void removeTip ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QToolTipGroup class collects tool tips into natural groups.
.PP
Tool tips can display \fItwo\fR texts, the one in the tip and optionally another one, typically in a status bar. QToolTipGroup provides a way to link tool tips to this status bar.
.PP
QToolTipGroup has practically no API, it is only used as an argument to QToolTip's member functions, for example like this:
.PP
.nf
.br
    QToolTipGroup * g = new QToolTipGroup( this, "tool tip relay" );
.br
    connect( g, SIGNAL(showTip(const char *)),
.br
             myLabel, SLOT(setText(const char *)) );
.br
    connect( g, SIGNAL(removeTip()),
.br
             myLabel, SLOT(clear()) );
.br
    QToolTip::add( giraffeButton, "feed giraffe",
.br
                   g, "Give the giraffe a meal" );
.br
    QToolTip::add( gorillaButton, "feed gorilla",
.br
                   g, "Give the gorilla a meal" );
.fi
.PP
This example makes the object myLabel (which you have to supply) display (one assumes, though you can make myLabel do anything, of course) the strings "Give the giraffe a meal" and "Give the gorilla a meal" while the relevant tool tips are being displayed.
.PP
Deleting a tool tip group removes the tool tips in it.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QToolTipGroup::QToolTipGroup ( QObject * parent, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a tool tip group.
.SH "QToolTipGroup::~QToolTipGroup ()"
Destroy this tool tip groups and all tool tips in it.
.SH "void QToolTipGroup::removeTip () \fC[signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when a tool tip in this group is hidden. See the QToolTipGroup documentation for an example of use.
.PP
See also: showTip().
.SH "void QToolTipGroup::showTip ( const char * longText ) \fC[signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when one of the tool tips in the group is displayed. \fIlongText\fR is the supplementary text for the displayed tool tip.
.PP
See also:  removeTip().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qtooltipgroup.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
