.TH QUrlDrag 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QUrlDrag \- Provides for drag-and-drop of a list of file references
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QStoredDrag.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QUrlDrag ( QStrList " "urls" ", QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QUrlDrag ( QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QUrlDrag\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void setUrls ( QStrList urls )"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QString urlToLocalFile ( const char * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool canDecode ( QDragMoveEvent * e )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool decode ( QDropEvent * " "e" ", QStrList & i )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool decodeLocalFiles ( QDropEvent * " "e" ", QStrList & i )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides for drag-and-drop of a list of file references.
.PP
URLs are a useful way to refer to files that may be distributed across multiple machines. Much of the time a URL will refer to a file on a machine local to both the drag source and the drop target, and so the URL will be equivalent to passing a filename, but more extensible.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QUrlDrag::QUrlDrag ( QStrList urls, QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates an object to drag the list of urls in \fIurls.\fR The \fIdragSource\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are passed on to QStoredDrag.
.SH "QUrlDrag::QUrlDrag ( QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Creates a object to drag. You will need to call setUrls() before you start the drag().
.SH "QUrlDrag::~QUrlDrag ()"
Destroys the object.
.SH "bool QUrlDrag::canDecode ( QDragMoveEvent * e ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns TRUE if decode() would be able to decode \fIe.\fR
.SH "bool QUrlDrag::decode ( QDropEvent * e, QStrList & l ) \fC[static]\fR"
Decodes URLs from \fIe,\fR placing the result in \fIl\fR (which is first cleared).
.PP
Returns TRUE if the event contained a valid list of URLs.
.SH "bool QUrlDrag::decodeLocalFiles ( QDropEvent * e, QStrList & l ) \fC[static]\fR"
Decodes URLs from \fIe,\fR converts them to local files if they refer to local files, and places them in \fIl\fR (which is first cleared).
.PP
Returns TRUE if the event contained a valid list of URLs. The list will be empty if no URLs were local files.
.SH "void QUrlDrag::setUrls ( QStrList urls )"
Changes the list of \fIurls\fR to be dragged.
.SH "QString QUrlDrag::urlToLocalFile ( const char * url ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns the name of a local file equivalent to \fIurl,\fR
or a null string if \fIurl\fR is not a local file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qurldrag.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
