.TH QXtApplication 3qt "26 Febrary 1999" "Troll Tech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" LICENSE file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXtApplication \- Allows mixing of Xt/Motif and Qt widgets [Qt Xt/Motif Extension]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxt.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QApplication.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QXtApplication ( int & " "argc" ", char ** " "argv" ", const char * " "appclass" "=0, XrmOptionDescRec * " "options" "=0, int " "num_options" "=0, const char ** " "resources" "=0 )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QXtApplication ( Display * )"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QXtApplication\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool x11EventFilter ( XEvent * )"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
This class is defined in the \fBQt Xt/Motif Extension\fR, which can be found in the \fCqt/extensions\fR directory. It is not included in the main Qt API.
.PP
Allows mixing of Xt/Motif and Qt widgets.
.PP
The QXtApplication and QXtWidget classes allow old Xt or Motif widgets to be used in new Qt applications. They also allow Qt widgets to be used in primarily Xt/Motif applications. The facility is intended to aid migration from Xt/Motif to the more comfortable Qt system.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
mainlyMotif/editor.cpp mainlyQt/editor.cpp mainlyXt/editor.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXtApplication::QXtApplication ( Display * display )"
Constructs a QApplication from the \fIdisplay\fR of an already-initialized Xt application.
.PP
Use this constructor when introducing Qt widgets into an existing Xt/Motif application.
.SH "QXtApplication::QXtApplication ( int & argc, char ** argv, const char * appclass=0, XrmOptionDescRec * options=0, int num_options=0, const char ** resources=0 )"
Constructs a QApplication and initializes the Xt toolkit. The \fIappclass, options, num_options,\fR and \fIresources\fR arguments are passed on to XtAppSetFallbackResources and XtDisplayInitialize.
.PP
Use this constructor when writing a new Qt application which needs to use some existing Xt/Motif widgets.
.SH "QXtApplication::~QXtApplication ()"
Destructs the application. Does not close the Xt toolkit.
.SH "bool QXtApplication::x11EventFilter ( XEvent * ev )"
Reimplemented to pass client messages to Xt.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://www.troll.no/qt/qxtapplication.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1997 Troll Tech AS.  See the LICENSE file included in
the distribution for a complete license statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
